One X player first showed up on my radar
when they had the gaming handheld that
was much bigger than anyone else's and
it seems like they are taking one more
step in their Journey towards a TV with
giant controllers on the side of it with
the 1X player
X1 that's right my friends this is a
handheld gaming
PC how big are your hands
people look I'm allowed to make small
hands jokes how dare you censor me
editor
ooh ah it's heavy it's funny for me
because my wife just picked up Dave the
diver on our RG Ally and even at that
size every time I look at her she's got
it firmly planted against something to
ensure that her arms don't get fatigued
with this thing you'd have to be Dwayne
The Rock Johnson to be able to actually
hold this in front of you and game on it
for an extended period of time look look
at this I accidentally dropped it in a
previous take and it freaking destroyed
the pack
in here we find the charger which is a
100 W charger it supports USB power
delivery up to 20 volts and comes with a
not really satisfactorily long USBC
cable I'd like to see this a little bit
on the longer side maybe more like 5 ft
realistically we saw as much as 6 hours
of battery life on this thing in our
endurance test but as little as just
over an hour in our torture test so
depending on your configuration you're
probably going to be gaming for about 2s
hour is and change and then you're going
to want to be plugged into the wall
while you use it guess better buy
yourself a fancy USB cable one of the
big controversies maybe not controversy
but certainly something for you to
consider around this device is that it
uses Intel's core Ultra 7 155h which has
six high performance cores can be paired
with up to 64 gigs of lpddr 5x memory up
to 4 terab of storage and in every
configuration Intel arc graphics we're
going to get into performance a little
bit more later first let's take a look
at the accessories because this is not
just a handheld with 1 x player making
this keyboard accessory available which
I guess makes the screen size make a lot
more sense like if this thing's half
gaming handeld half whoo it's kind of
like a like a little mini surface that's
pretty cool of course the keyboard is
optional so we'll take a closer look at
that later first I want to see the
definitely non-infringing
detachable game
controllers First Impressions not bad
they've got a bit of a soft touch feel
to them but the Finish is just plastic
so you won't have to worry about them
turning all gross and sticky over
time H there were some notes from the
lab about how the abxy buttons felt kind
of weird like it's a micro
switch at the bottom but there's an
awful lot of to
travel I see it it feels kind of like a
rubber Dome that
collapses and then it hits a micro
switch Yeah it's a bit of a weird mushy
feeling I wouldn't say that it bothers
me but I'm not a fan of that kind of
configuration for something like a d-pad
and it feels like they Ed the exact same
switches one thing that some folks will
appreciate though is the use of these
full-sized Alps gaming grade which I
guess means they have RGB joysticks and
the inclusion of a rear button that you
can remap to whatever you need triggers
feel good shoulders feel all right let's
have a look at the attachment mechanism
hold on just a gosh darn a second here
so you pull off this which is going to
get lost
immediately and then you put this
on and it interferes with your micro SD
slot that's kind of a drag also here is
a usb3 type A which is definitely a
welcome addition if you're going to be
using this thing as an actual laptop up
top we've got a turbo button which I
will definitely be trying out later
ventilation hole this is actually a
really nice aluminum chassis the thing
feels while heavy definitely wellb built
an oculink Port super cool so that's PCI
gen 4x4 and if you have a compatible
dock that means you can run an egpu
without some of the well hassle that can
be associated with Thunderbolt although
without some of the convenience of
Thunderbolt meaning it's not going to be
hot pluggable we've got a 3 1/2 mm
headphone jack back and oh that's
curious they reversed the typical
position of volume up and volume down I
would expect volume up to be on the
right here's our power button does that
have a built-in fingerprint sensor it
does nice on the left we've got two USBC
no way did they really
put yeah they did there's no way you're
getting any real actual cable plugged
into that bottom one not the end of the
world because at least it does have one
that's accessible but I can't say that
I'm a huge fan then at the bottom we've
got a dock interface for the detachable
keyboard man that's that's kind of weird
it feels like oh it does come off this
intake is accounted for in the back
cover this appears to be an intake but
is not accounted for the only other
thing to see back here is the Harmon
branding they've apparently worked with
Harmon to tune the audio on this thing
to I'm sorry I'm having a hard time
taking this seriously at this point now
this is
hilarious as comical as it might look
and as heavy as the device might be
though the controllers managed to feel
pretty solid there's definitely a little
bit more play in the left one compared
to the one on the right but either one I
would consider to be acceptable is not
the sort of thing that I would notice
over an extended period of time and
what's not comical at all is the sheer
expansiveness of this thing kind of like
it it's freaking huge not only that but
this display kind of sick 2560 x600 so
that's a 16x 10 aspect ratio really nice
pixel density it manages to achieve even
better than the 540 nits of peak
brightness that they rate it for and it
manages 99% coverage of the P3 color
gamut while being reasonably accurate
especially if you enable the
compensation within windows that doesn't
work great on all devices but does work
well on this one and all of that and it
runs at 120 HZ now the arc GPU in here
might struggle to run games at that kind
of refresh rate and resolution but hey
don't let me tell you let me show you
after this message from our sponsor
magic spoon most of the cereals you find
on the store shelf these days are loaded
with sugar not magic spoon their health
conscious cereals have 0 gram of sugar
13 to 14 g of protein and only four to 5
net GS of carbs per serving you can
build your own variety box with flavors
that are reminiscent of your favorite
cereals like Fruity and frosted and best
of all magic spoon's products are 100%
satisfaction guaranteed don't like what
you got let's let them know and Magic
spoon will fully refund your first case
of products so click the link below and
use code lonus for $5 off a magic spoon
variety box all right let's play a
variety box of games here shall we
ooh I kind of thought I was okay with
the
abxy they're not good while the simple
mushiness of them isn't the worst that
I've seen by a long shot this joystick
being right here makes it kind of a CH
to press it unless you're really
adjusting the ergonomics and on
something like a Nintendo switch that's
no problem because the thing's so light
you can kind of hold it however you want
here you really got to hold on to this
thing and I'm I'm not a big fan of that
a position like I'm not exaggerating if
I if I want to press this with this part
of my thumb I mean you might have bigger
hands so your mileage may vary but not a
fan when I have my hands covering the
controller it doesn't look quite as
ridiculous if anything it looks great I
mean it's almost an 11in display this is
basically the equivalent
of sitting like yeah this distance from
a Flippin 65 in TV but when you see the
controllers like yeah look at him
they're so
cute something friends and
family work
Freedom life that is so cool I'm keeping
her there forever okay we have a pretty
close family friend who's deaf and
whenever I see my family and I'm talking
to her she
like does the
equivalent of
signing like this for me like thank you
Danielle cuz I can't understand you
otherwise I'm I'm pretty slow I'm Rusty
it's just funny because an audible
version of that would be like
bondor
lus this is running a lot better than I
expected after all the issues that I've
heard about with the core Ultra 7 155h
not to mention the ones that I
experienced on the early drivers when I
was checking out the MSI clot CES I was
expecting a lot more of that kind of um
it almost feels like rubber banding
because the frame rate will drop and
then go up and then drop and then go up
oh H okay that was more of just a
stutter but kind of like that actually
it looks like they've improved a lot
since then but one of in's big problems
with their Arc Alchemist generation gpus
is inconsistency from one game to the
next one game will run great and another
one will be dog shite in fact one of our
games returnal we weren't even able to
include in our results because the
physics in the game went all wonky Intel
says they're working on this but we
don't have an ETA for the fix actually
what I was playing around with right now
was the joysticks basically very little
in the way of dead zones they advertise
nothing essentially and while I'm sure
there is is something I'm not able to
detect it usually I'm pretty sensitive
to them too I'm really good driver as
long as I don't have dead zones you can
see that right God this display though
man that's sick it's not even cranked
woo Look at Her
Go wow no HDR support mind you but SDR
looks absolutely flipping awesome I bet
you'd even be able to play outside with
this thing I really like these joysticks
One X player doesn't say specifically on
the product page if they're hall effect
but they feel really good let's take a
short gaming break and have a look at
some of 1x player's software which in
the past for me has been a weak point of
their systems against competitors like
the Ally which one is their software
this oh there it is nice do we have a
shortcut for
it the you hit the turbo button you hit
the turbo button God I pressed
everything okay this is bad let's start
over shall we turbo button perfect
there's the software
we're in the 35 watt mode M that could
explain part of why the performance
doesn't suck because it was especially
more moderate tdps that the claw was
suffering the last time that I looked at
it that and 35 watts is a lot you're not
going to get a ton of battery life out
of that typically I'm going to be using
my devices in more like the 15 watt
range unless I'm really trying to get
maximum performance in which case yeah
you might go up to about 30 fan mode is
automatic curiously we found that it
tracks with the igp U temperature rather
than with the package temperature so
that's good for gaming and that you can
be running a game and pretty much
immediately the fan will kick in like
Jake's car but it can be kind of
unfortunate in that you can have a
Windows update running in the background
using 20% 25% of the CPU and your temps
will Spike and the fan will just stay
idle almost this is nice being able to
change the reported resolution of the
display there you go can't decide
whether I'd go for 1920 x 1200 or 1280
by 800 that is that is not a lot of
pixels at this size you'd probably have
to go with 1920 x 1200 why don't we have
a look at the keyboard case now it's
worth noting that this is a prototype
unit and not fully representative of the
final quality One X player went out of
their way to say
hey don't judge the keyboard too harshly
this is pretty early and we're going to
have a pinned comment if the final
version that they sent us is markedly
different but it at least gives us a
chance to have a look at what the
ergonomics of the setup will look like
with the keyboard trackpad attachment
piece feels like such a monstrosity look
at this it's hilarious especially with
the controller still attached to it
let's go ahead and get our rivit tuner
thing set up okay that's a pretty stiff
click I can see what the labs was
talking about on the
trackpad wow that's really stiff okay
but prototype let's
try I mean there's some give but this is
very usable I would say with some
improvements this is definitely a uh
thick tablet computer handheld
thing
oh guys that's why the volume rockers
like
that it's a tablet we'll turn the auto
rotate on there's your problem right
there yeah I think that's going to be
the minority of the time that people
spend using this but I think I found the
rationale at
least no no you guys man you guys are a
terrible audience not not not you the
people who are sitting in this room with
me and like acting like they're Dead
coming back to the software for a moment
one of the things that was really weird
about this is we found a turbo button in
the software here and then we found a
second Intel turbo boost toggle in the
Cog menu here as far as we can tell the
best way to run it is with this off
which doesn't seem to do anything and
turbo on in the 1X player slide in menu
it has a oh M gyro it's smooth got love
that 120 HZ display freaking love that
uh we can turn it on if the left trigger
gets press oh that's pretty cool so this
is useful obviously for navigating
Windows like I'm doing right now but
also for playing FPS games because I
don't know about you guys but for me
playing firstperson Shooters with a
Controller joystick I I really struggle
with it whereas when we did that video a
couple of years back using the
PlayStation 4 as a gyro aimer and then
just the buttons for movement and weapon
switching and all that stuff made a huge
difference for me out of the box it's
configured to allocate 16 GB of the
onboard memory to the G GPU in this
particular configuration your mileage
may vary with that I've been instructed
to try the webcam I mean I guess if this
is going to be your laptop then you're
going to want a decent webcam that's
cool it has the IR emitter so that you
can use it with Windows hello for
biometric authentication and I think I
see an array mic there so the recording
quality on this thing might actually be
decent do they really brand it as an AI
camera have they said what makes it AI
auto focus tracking autofocus tracking I
mean I look as good in any place as I
ever do it's only a one megapixel camera
and no amount of AI is going to fix that
too much and the audio is as good as
what it is right now let's try out crab
RVE speaking of audio I search for
crabrave youtube.com Bing get good the
first result is Bing videos with that
said this will just play the YouTube
video and it won't have ads so it's kind
of a hack did you know this yeah there
there's no there's no ads that's piracy
l no that's not piracy that's a
workaround all right let's turn on the
sound it's Wi-Fi 6E so that's good but
not the
best very decent not bad actually pretty
impressed not an amazing Sound Stage but
pretty reasonable quality on the subject
of things not amazing we've gotal fired
up now which looks fine right now but we
haven't tried to run the Benchmark yet
give me a second here h i
see there's supposed to be shrapnel
there but instead there just kind of
isn't and as much as this isn't 1X
player's fault this is down to Intel's
optimization of their Arc drivers it's
definitely something that 1X player has
to deal with and something that will
affect the users of this device what
will also affect users of the device is
the performance compared to amd-based
devices like the Ally and the Lenovo
Legion go the reason I bring up the
legion go is not because I was
particularly enthused about it when I
used it but because it is a large screen
device that would be at least closer to
equivalent to this one hopefully Intel
can continue to improve that because the
bones overall are pretty cool it doesn't
get obnoxiously loud and the size of the
screen makes it a truly unique
experience compared to other handhelds
the only other obstacle then is the
price you can buy over one and a half
Legion goes for the price of this thing
and almost two allies both of which will
perform better Hey look it's my wife
hey Von come try this you've been
playing some da the diver on the Ally
what do you think of the weight and
ergonomics of this boy um it's really
heavy actually is it not I do I hear
that wrong no I I mean you can't be
wrong about whether something is heavy
to you I mean I said that you were
basically She-Hulk and that it wouldn't
bother you earlier when I was talking
about it but like sure go ahead and
contradict me just like with the kids I
feel the triggers um easier to hold this
one's harder to press but this one's
easier to press compared to the Ally
yeah okay I like the bigger screen
that's cool all right thanks H okay and
thank you for watching subscribe to
Short Circuit